although most life in tropical waters is
concentrated around the coral reefs and
the seagrass meadows there are some
spectacular exceptions
the desert of Bahrain seems a very
unlikely place to find a crowded
bustling colony of seabirds but every
year a hundred thousand Socotra
cormorants gather here to breed
it's swelteringly hot and only digger
aspanu invent the birds from fatal
overheating this hardly seems the court
pace to rear young but at least there
are no land-based predators here the
only source of trouble is likely to be
the neighbours so each nest is built
just beyond pecking reach
but what about food there's only bear
sand and the warm shallow sea beyond
neither seemed likely to produce enough
nourishment to support birdlife on this
scale the answer is blowing in the wind
sandé whipped up by shamil's
offshore winds blows into the seas of
the arabian gulf with the grains come
nutrients which act as fertiliser and
they transform the shallow sea into a
rich fishing ground
so paradoxically it's the roasted sands
of Arabia that prevent the Gulf from
being another desert in the sea
you